docs(tutorials): replacing jest testing with react to use vitest at frontend-feature-flag article (#11088)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/test-frontend-feature-flags.md

```js
// ./vite.config.js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'

export default defineConfig({ 
  plugins: [react()],
  test: {
    globals: true,
    environment: 'jsdom',
    setupFiles: './vitest.setup.js'
  },
})
```

Now, we're ready to set up our first test. Since **vite-react** already provided a sample component `src/App.jsx`, we can create a new file called `src/App.test.jsx` and test it:

```js
// ./src/App.test.jsx
import { expect, test } from 'vitest'
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";
import App from './App';

test('renders learn link', () => {
  render(<App />);
  const linkElement = screen.getByText(/learn/i);
  expect(linkElement).toBeInTheDocument();
});
```

This test uses **Vitest**, a popular JavaScript testing library. It passes when all the default code is in place and is a test to build on as we build out our app.

To run the tests, update your `package.json` with the new script:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "vite",
    "build": "vite build",
    "lint": "eslint .",
    "preview": "vite preview",
    "test": "vitest"
  }
}
```

> With everything settled up, we can finally run our tests: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With everything set up, we can finally run our tests: 
```

To do this, you need to mock the flags to access the other variations. This tutorial shows you how to do that by creating a React app with Jest tests, adding PostHog, then setting up tests that work with feature flags by mocking PostHog.

> ## Creating a Vite-React app and setup Vitest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a React app with Vite and setting up Vitest
```

> First, ensure [Node.js is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/) (version 18.0 or newer). Then create a new React app with Vite: We named ours `flag-test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, ensure [Node.js is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/) (version 18.0 or newer), and then create a new React app with Vite. We named ours `flag-test`.
```

```bash
npm create vite@latest flag-test -- --template react
```

> After creating the app, in the newly created `flag-test` folder, but by default the test framework isn't installed at the project yet, so let's add it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, in the newly created `flag-test` folder, we install Vitest and its requirements:
```

```bash
cd flag-test
npm add -D vitest @testing-library/react @testing-library/jest-dom
```

> Since we're about to test `components` directly, we must create a file called `vitest.setup.js` at our project root importing the required dependency:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we're about to test `components` directly, we must create a file called `vitest.setup.js` at our project root and import the required dependency:
```

```js
// ./vitest.setup.js
import '@testing-library/jest-dom'
```

> With the dependency installed at our project, the next step is to let the `vite.config.js` know the new testing setup configurations by adding the `test` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dependency installed in our project, the next step is to let the `vite.config.js` know the new testing setup configurations by adding the `test` property:
```

```js
// ./vite.config.js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'

export default defineConfig({ 
  plugins: [react()],
  test: {
    globals: true,
    environment: 'jsdom',
    setupFiles: './vitest.setup.js'
  },
})
```

> Now, we're ready to set up our first test. Since the **vite-react** already provided a sample component `src/App.jsx`, we can create a new file called `src/App.test.jsx` and start with this boilerplate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we're ready to set up our first test. Since **vite-react** already provided a sample component `src/App.jsx`, we can create a new file called `src/App.test.jsx` and test it:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```js

> // ./src/App.test.js

Reviewer: js or jsx?

Author: That's JS. My bad.

> // ./src/App.test.js

Author: ```suggestion
// ./src/App.test.jsx
```

import { expect, test } from 'vitest'
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";
import App from './App';

test('renders learn link', () => {
  render(<App />);
  const linkElement = screen.getByText(/learn/i);
  expect(linkElement).toBeInTheDocument();
});
```

This test uses **Vitest**, a popular JavaScript testing library. It passes when all the default code is in place and is a test to build on as we build out our app.

To run the tests, update your `package.json` with the new script:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "vite",
    "build": "vite build",
    "lint": "eslint .",
    "preview": "vite preview",
    "test": "vitest"
  }
}
```

With everything settled up, we can finally run our tests: 

```bash

> npm test

Reviewer: Seems we need to add jsdom before this point too?
![CleanShot 2025-03-27 at 09 45 43@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c4f364af-5e4f-4eec-9bd8-3519f177e2bc)

Author: Fixed

npm i posthog-js
```

Next, add the `PostHogProvider` to `main.jsx`. This enables access to PostHog throughout your React app.

```js

> // src/index.js
> import React from 'react';
> import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
> import App from './App';
> import posthog from 'posthog-js';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// src/main.jsx
import React from 'react';
import { StrictMode } from 'react';
import App from './App';
import posthog from 'posthog-js';
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client';
```

  }
);

const root = document.getElementById('root');

> createRoot(root).render(

Reviewer: createRoot is not defined here

  <StrictMode>
  	<PostHogProvider client={posthog}>
	  <App />
  	</PostHogProvider>

>   </StrictMode>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  </StrictMode>
```

)
```

> With this setup, events are automatically captured, and we can set up our [React feature flag](/tutorials/react-feature-flags).

Reviewer: The below section needs a slight week because the file is `App.jsx`

Author: Wdym with "slight week"?

When we run the app again, the main link on the page changed to "Go to PostHog."

![Go to PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_03_27_at_09_52_49_2x_65390628c1.png)

## Making our tests and feature flags work together

When we run tests now, it still passes, but only tests part of the code. To test all of it, we must handle feature flags by mocking PostHog. 

> Luckily, Vitest provides a mock service natively. You can use it by importing the `vi` dependency from `vitest`, which is also has compatibility with the Jest API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luckily, Vitest provides a mock service natively. You can use it by importing the `vi` dependency from `vitest`, which also has compatibility with the Jest API.
```

> 

Reviewer: Here's an image to update the line above

https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_03_27_at_09_52_49_2x_65390628c1.png

## Making our tests and feature flags work together

When we run tests now, it still passes, but only tests part of the code. To test all of it, we must handle feature flags by mocking PostHog. 

> Luckily, **Vitest provides a mock service natively**, and you can use it by importing the `vi` dependency from `vitest`, which is also has compatibility with the `jest API`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luckily, Vitest provides a mock service natively. You can use it by importing the `vi` dependency from `vitest`, which is also has compatibility with the Jest API.
```
